Java EE
=======

Java EE is a specification at first glance and then this specification is implemented by numbers of vendors across the globe and these are - Oracle, IBM, Apache, Google and many more.

Java EE is itself,
  1. APIs and
  2. Runtime

which will be installed upon the Java SE.


Java EE Application Server
--------------------------
All the Java EE implementation comes with a software bundle called "Application Server".  For instance, "Glassfish application server from Oracle",
                        "Apache-Tomcat app server from Apache Foundation",
                        "WebSpehere from IBM and so on".


 The Application Server
 ----------------------
 It is the complete environment that is used to provide all kind of services to the
 installed applications. Normally, an "Application Server" deploy (install) :
    1. Client applications  
    2. Web Applications
    3. Enterprise Application (EJB)

 The "Application Server" is a sandbox in which our applications are installed,  executed/run and served by the application server's services. These services ranging
 from code compilation to provide database, email, HTTP server and many more.

 Application Server is also known as "Container" because it can contains 
 various categories of applications. However, there are different-different containers - Web Container, EJB Container and Client Container". In short, any application server (of any company) must have three types of containers.

 The Application Server and Spring tools - IDE
 ---------------------------------------------
 Spring tools IDE implicitly install the Apache-Tomcat app server however we are free
 to use other application servers. 

 The Apache-Tomcat application server's HTTP server start at 8080 port (We can re- configure the application server).  

 The context  Or Java EE Web App name
 ------------------------------------
 The Application Server create a "friendly" name under which we can copy or deploy
 our application and this "friendly" name is known as "Context" or we can also say 
 "project name".

 The "Context" is a point of execution of your application.

 When the application server is up, the context can be up at any time when a user very first time request the "resource (page/program/file)" and then it remains "up" or "alive" till the Application is running or "fatal errors" are not encounted within the
 application.

 For instance,
   Create a "Dynamic Web Application/site" via Project + Web options in file + new    menu. 
   Name your project and click on "Finish" (Or use Next to configure a different    application server).

   
 

